README.md, before:

# Bop Ballot

[My Notes](notes.md)

Bop Ballot is a song suggestion app that allows you to give song suggestions, vote on others' suggestions, and view the live voting.


> [!NOTE]
>  This is a template for your startup application. You must modify this `README.md` file for each phase of your development. You only need to fill in the section for each deliverable when that deliverable is submitted in Canvas. Without completing the section for a deliverable, the TA will not know what to look for when grading your submission. Feel free to add additional information to each deliverable description, but make sure you at least have the list of rubric items and a description of what you did for each item.

> [!NOTE]
>  If you are not familiar with Markdown then you should review the [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) before continuing.

## 🚀 Specification Deliverable

> [!NOTE]
>  Fill in this sections as the submission artifact for this deliverable. You can refer to this [example](https://github.com/webprogramming260/startup-example/blob/main/README.md) for inspiration.

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] Proper use of Markdown
- [x] A concise and compelling elevator pitch
- [x] Description of key features
- [x] Description of how you will use each technology
- [x] One or more rough sketches of your application. Images must be embedded in this file using Markdown image references.

### Elevator pitch

Tired of listening to the same music on repeat? Or frustrated when your music suggestions get ignored? With Bop Ballot, you can make song suggestions, vote on others' suggestions, and view the live voting results all in one place. It's the easiest way to share your favorite music, discover new songs, and create the ultimate crowd-approved playlist.

### Design

![Design image: home page and add suggestion screen](images/bop_ballot_design_2.jpg)
![Design image: voting screen and vote results screen](images/bop_ballot_design_1.jpg)

### Key features

- Login to keep your suggestions tied to your account
- Make song suggestions by searching for them using the iTunes Search API
- Add votes to others' suggestions
- Play short previews of songs directly in the app
- View real-time updates on which songs have the most votes

### Technologies

I am going to use the required technologies in the following ways.

- **HTML** - HTML pages for login, song search, suggestion list, and voting results
- **CSS** - Consistent and aesthetic color choice and styling throughout the app. Simple and straightforward user interface design.
- **React** - Uses login form, song search, voting, and displaying votes.
- **Service** - Backend service endpoints:
  - login
  - adding a song suggestion
  - submitting song votes
  - retrieving votes
  - Third-party call to iTunes Search API to get song data
- **DB/Login** - Store users, song suggestions, and song vote counts, user votes so that there isn't duplicate voting
- **WebSocket** - Every vote for a song updates the list in real time and broadcast to other users.

## 🚀 AWS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Server deployed and accessible with custom domain name** - [My server link](https://yourdomainnamehere.click).

## 🚀 HTML deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **HTML pages** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Proper HTML element usage** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Links** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Text** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **3rd party API placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Login placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **DB data placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

```
## 🚀 CSS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Header, footer, and main content body** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Navigation elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Responsive to window resizing** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application text content** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 1: Routing deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Bundled using Vite** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Components** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Router** - Routing between login and voting components.

## 🚀 React part 2: Reactivity

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **All functionality implemented or mocked out** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Hooks** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 Service deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Node.js/Express HTTP service** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Static middleware for frontend** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Calls to third party endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Backend service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend calls service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 DB/Login deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **User registration** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **User login and logout** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores data in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores credentials in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Restricts functionality based on authentication** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 WebSocket deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Backend listens for WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend makes WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Data sent over WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket data displayed** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application is fully functional** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

Commit message:

Adding third party API placeholder to suggest.html

README.md, after:

# Bop Ballot

[My Notes](notes.md)

Bop Ballot is a song suggestion app that allows you to give song suggestions, vote on others' suggestions, and view the live voting.


> [!NOTE]
>  This is a template for your startup application. You must modify this `README.md` file for each phase of your development. You only need to fill in the section for each deliverable when that deliverable is submitted in Canvas. Without completing the section for a deliverable, the TA will not know what to look for when grading your submission. Feel free to add additional information to each deliverable description, but make sure you at least have the list of rubric items and a description of what you did for each item.

> [!NOTE]
>  If you are not familiar with Markdown then you should review the [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) before continuing.

## 🚀 Specification Deliverable

> [!NOTE]
>  Fill in this sections as the submission artifact for this deliverable. You can refer to this [example](https://github.com/webprogramming260/startup-example/blob/main/README.md) for inspiration.

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] Proper use of Markdown
- [x] A concise and compelling elevator pitch
- [x] Description of key features
- [x] Description of how you will use each technology
- [x] One or more rough sketches of your application. Images must be embedded in this file using Markdown image references.

### Elevator pitch

Tired of listening to the same music on repeat? Or frustrated when your music suggestions get ignored? With Bop Ballot, you can make song suggestions, vote on others' suggestions, and view the live voting results all in one place. It's the easiest way to share your favorite music, discover new songs, and create the ultimate crowd-approved playlist.

### Design

![Design image: home page and add suggestion screen](images/bop_ballot_design_2.jpg)
![Design image: voting screen and vote results screen](images/bop_ballot_design_1.jpg)

### Key features

- Login to keep your suggestions tied to your account
- Make song suggestions by searching for them using the iTunes Search API
- Add votes to others' suggestions
- Play short previews of songs directly in the app
- View real-time updates on which songs have the most votes

### Technologies

I am going to use the required technologies in the following ways.

- **HTML** - HTML pages for login, song search, suggestion list, and voting results
- **CSS** - Consistent and aesthetic color choice and styling throughout the app. Simple and straightforward user interface design.
- **React** - Uses login form, song search, voting, and displaying votes.
- **Service** - Backend service endpoints:
  - login
  - adding a song suggestion
  - submitting song votes
  - retrieving votes
  - Third-party call to iTunes Search API to get song data
- **DB/Login** - Store users, song suggestions, and song vote counts, user votes so that there isn't duplicate voting
- **WebSocket** - Every vote for a song updates the list in real time and broadcast to other users.

## 🚀 AWS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Server deployed and accessible with custom domain name** - [My server link](https://boppitybop260.click).

## 🚀 HTML deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **HTML pages** - 4 html pages for login(index.html), making song suggestions(suggest.html), voting(vote.html), and voting results(scores.html).
- [x] **Proper HTML element usage** - I used many HTML elements such as <head>, <nav>, <menu>, <li>, <a>, <form>, <label>, <input>, <table>, <img>, <span>, <button>, and more basic HTML elements.
- [x] **Links** - Each page has a menu at the top with links to direct you to any of the other pages. I also included a link in the footer of each page with my GitHub repo.
- [x] **Text** - Each page has text titles, there are labels for text entries and buttons, there are text descriptions for the song titles and artists and the results table has text entries.
- [ ] **3rd party API placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Login placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **DB data placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket placeholder** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

```
## 🚀 CSS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Header, footer, and main content body** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Navigation elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Responsive to window resizing** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application text content** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 1: Routing deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Bundled using Vite** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Components** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Router** - Routing between login and voting components.

## 🚀 React part 2: Reactivity

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **All functionality implemented or mocked out** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Hooks** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 Service deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Node.js/Express HTTP service** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Static middleware for frontend** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Calls to third party endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Backend service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend calls service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 DB/Login deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **User registration** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **User login and logout** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores data in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores credentials in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Restricts functionality based on authentication** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 WebSocket deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Backend listens for WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend makes WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Data sent over WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket data displayed** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application is fully functional** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
